== Name
   gravgen.rb

== Version
   $Id$

== Purpose
   Use the gravtar.com public API to retrieve or generate avatars.

== Features
   * Works as both a library and as a standalone executable.
   * Works out of the box. No programming required!
   * Does NOT require rubygems, unless you want to run the included
     rake tasks or rspec tests. Neither is necessary for routine
     operation.
   * Self-documenting through the magic of RDoc::usage.

== Usage
   gravgen.rb [OPTIONS] [FILENAME]

   --help, -h:
       Show complete documentation.
   --license, -l:
       Display license.
   --usage, -u:
       Show program options.
   --version, -v:
       Display this program's version information.

   --email <email_address>, -e <email_address>:
       Email address to hash for the avatar.
   --filename <string>, -f <string>:
       Output filename for avatar.
   --format <valid_format_code>, -t <valid_format_code>:
       Valid code for an avatar format. Defaults to 'identicon.'
   --size <integer>, -s <integer>
       Valid image size. Defaults to '80.'

== Examples
   # Create a random 80x80 avatar, display its introspected values,
   # and store it to disk.
   #
   # HINT: reuse the value of @email if you want to recreate a
   # particular random avatar at a different size later on!
   gravgen.rb

   # Save identicon for email address foo@example.com to a foo.png
   # file.
   gravgen.rb -e foo@example.com foo.png

   # Create wavatar for bar@example.com on stdout.
   gravgen.rb -e bar@example.com -f- > /tmp/wavatar.png

   # Create random 512x512 monsterid.
   gravgen.rb -s 512 -t monsterid /tmp/monsterid.png

   # Use email address encoded into the filename of a random image as
   # the basis for a resized copy.
   gravgen.rb --size 32 --email $(
     ls avatar_31765_d0d632d0-aecb-4f75-badf-0a9b8d63c891.png |
     cut -d- -f2- |
     cut -d. -f1
   )

== Errorlevels
   0 = Success
   1 = Failure
   99 = Help/Usage

== Copyright:
   Copyright 2010, 2012 Todd A. Jacobs
   All Rights Reserved

== License
   Released under the GNU General Public License (GPL)
   http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html

   This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
   modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
   published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the
   License, or (at your option) any later version.

   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
   WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
   General Public License for more details.
